###Homelessness in the USA###

##Group Members:##
Erika Bond, Jesus Quinones, Joseph Leaptrott, Alexander Duong

##Project Description:##

#The issue of modern homelessness is broad and complex, affecting far too many of our neighbors and communities.In fact, the true definition of homelessness is much broader than one might expect; simply stated as a person without a reliable shelter. In attempt to visualize the severity of this issue, our project dives into a broad overview of homelessness within the United States, and further depicts homeless data on a more local scale for a 'Close to Home', Washington-specific outlook on the data.The purpose of our report is to educate the general public on the intensity of homelessness within our country and to hopefully spark action among citizens, beginning on a local level.#

The data our group will be working with is a two part dataset titled ‘Homelessness’, that is broken down into two .csv files regarding homeless populations in the United States. This dataset was found on kaggle.com  and was loaded onto kaggle by user Adam Schroeder, and was initially generated by CoC (Continuum of Care Program)  and provided to HUD (Department of Housing and Urban Development). 
Our primary target audience is the general public seeking to extract and acknowledge information regarding a given state’s homeless population breakdown. This audience would hopefully be individuals wanting to gain insights on this widespread issue, get involved in helping homeless (via volunteer or lobbying efforts), or raise social consciousness.
In viewing our data and visual representations, the audience will hopefully leave much more aware of the devastating reality that is homelessness, and feel some sort of persuasion towards providing aid or continuing to raise awareness regarding this issue. Some specific questions the audience should leave with answers to are:
What is the total homeless population by state? (And how does that data breakdown into different groupings into ‘types’ of homelessness (i.e. in shelters, chronically homeless, etc.)?)
What is a particular state’s homeless population by county?
What is the difference in homeless population USA (or potential specific state)  from when the data started being collected (2006) to most recent entries (2016)? 

##Technical Description:##

In order to make an impactful and informative presentation, working with the Shiny.io will open up more opportunities to best present our project.  

We will be working with a static .csv file downloaded from an open source dataset hosting website called Kaggle.

In order to properly analyze our data we will need to reshape and format the dataset. Due to our datafile being rather large, the group will need to delegate how exactly we should reshape and format the data to omit unnecessary information. 
ggplot2, shiny, and tidyr library. 

 The dataset contains multiple layers of information regarding the type of homelessness analysed.  Layers range from: unsheltered homeless, homeless people in families, to unsheltered homeless veterans and more. With the capabilities of the Shiny slide controls, presenting the layers on a map and/or chart overlay will be very informative to the public. Presenting these layers to the public will further shed light on homelessness in the U.S. and hopefully promote change. Additionally, analysing the difference between homeless populations from 2007 to 2016 will possibly raise more questions regarding to why there are spikes in some years and drops in others. 
 
As previously stated, our dataset is large coming in at just over 85,000 rows and 6 columns. The main issues we will be facing is organizing and wrangling the vast amount of layers in into their each subcategory of homeless data. This will allow us to create an impactful interactive chart. For the more broader yet still impactful questions, such as finding the difference of homeless population through the years, should in theory be easier to accomplish. Although, figuring out how to best present that data to the public will be a challenge. 
